>> Kyle Simpson: Let's
jump into JavaScript.
We're gonna start with that first core
foundation of the language, types and
coercion.
I want us to look at the primitive
types in JavaScript, and
right off the bat that might be a little
counterintuitive to you because some of
you may have heard before, JavaScript's
a dynamic interpreted language,
it doesn't have types, false,
it absolutely has types.
It absolutely has value types.
If you read the spec,
which I happen to have done,
turns out there are built in
primitive types in JavaScript.
The only difference between C++ and
JavaScript on the topic of types,
the difference between the two is not
that JavaScript doesn't have types.
The real difference is what is typed.
In a statically typed language
which language is like C++ and
Java they fall under that
umbrella of statically typed.
In a statically typed language we
refer to a type as a description for
what can go in a variable.
In other words the variable
itself is typed.
In dynamic languages,
there are still types but
we don't focus on the variable,
the container having a type.
We focus on the value itself,
having the type.
So, we think about them as value
types as opposed to container types.
Now, people will disagree on
the usage of the word type and
you shouldn't call it that, whatever.
That's a bunch of academic nonsense.
If I open up the JavaScript spec,
it says primitive types.
It uses that word, so let me just
give you a definition for that word,
type, that we can use, a very pragmatic
definition for that word type.
The set of intrinsic behaviors that we
can expect, given any particular value.
That's it.
Given the value 42,
there are behaviors that we can expect.
We can expect that we can do math on it.
We can expect that we can add, subtract,
multiply and divide that number.
We can format it to have different
number representations like in base 10 or
base 16.
We can expect to do specific
things with that number.
The value quote 42 on the other hand,
while visually they look almost the same,
that value has a different
set of expectations.
Those expectations are well we can
access the individual characters.
We can do input output with it
like print it to the console or
add it to a DOM element.
It's the value types that matter.
So we want to look at
these primitive types.
Natives this actually frankly a kind
of confusing part of JavaScript.
It's a bit of some historical
baggage that we get from the language
having been designed to be attractive.
It's interesting that JavaScript was
designed to be attractive to Java
developers, but I've never met any
crowd other than the Haskell folks.
I've never met any crowd in all of
programming that hates JavaScript more
than the Java developers of the world.
And I'm not making that too broadly,
obviously there's plenty of people
that like to write both but
it seems like when I teach
the most vocal opponents of JavaScript
are those that come from the Java land.
So interesting that natives were added
as one of the ways to try to make
JavaScript more palatable to Java
developers to make it look more familiar.
If you don't know
the history of JavaScript,
it's Brendan Ike went to Netscape in 1995
wanting to put schema in the browser and
in the job interview they're like yeah
yeah yeah come put schema in the browser.
And then when he showed up they're
like no no no that's crazy.
We're not going to put
schema in the browser.
Anybody ever had that before?
They tell you one thing on the job
interview than on the job.
[CROSSTALK]
>> Speaker 2: Job was getting hard, right?
>> Kyle Simpson: Job was getting hard and
they said now, we need something a little
like JavaScript, it can be right a way
cuz we can't put job in the browser.
that would be crazy to put like
a Java plugin in a browser.
Make it look like Java then,
don't make it look like scheme
because that's just academic program.
So there's a lot that was added
to the language, affordances,
if you will,
to try to make it look more like that.
And the truth is, JavaScript actually has
a lot more in common with Scheme than it
does with Java or C++.
>> Kyle Simpson: It appears on the surface
syntactically to be more from the C family
of programming languages because we
have curly braces and semicolons,
everybody's favorite
syntactic affordances, right?
It appears on the surface to be more
like that but actually under the covers,
it's way more related to scheme.
More on the functional
matrix JavaScript writing.
All right, some natives, they are
confusing part how we should approach and
how we shouldn't do it with them.
Then everybody's dreaded topic coercion.
I really wanna dig into coercion and
I want you to understand more about
how this is and how it works, and why it's
not actually a negative of the language.
Coercion is actually a very necessary
part of the programming language.
And I wanna give you a frame of reference
or a different way of thinking about it
that suggests that it's something that
we actually should embrace in our code.
And that will lead us into a discussion
of equality which is the most common
of the misunderstood parts of the types
system and the coercion system.
How coercion interplays
with equality checks